                           PNTCALC File Format
                              19 April 20212

This document describes the PNTCALC file format.  For an overview of the
PNTCALC mechanism, see the PNTCALC documentation file.


Syntax

  PNTCALC files are intended to be reasonably readable and editable by
  humans using ordinary text editor programs.

  PNTCALC files contain lines of ASCII text.  End of lines may be
  indicated by either a carriage return (CR, code 13), line feed (LF, code
  10), or a CR-LF combination.  Readers must be able to interpret any of
  these end of line indications, on a line by line basis.

  Comments

    Lines where the body is any of:

      1 - Empty (0 characters).

      2 - Only blanks (code 32).

      3 - The first non-blank character is "*" (code 66).

    are ignored content-wise, and are collectively referred to as
    "comment" lines.  Comment lines are intended to aid human readability
    and understanding.  They have no effect on the data contents of
    PNTCALC files.

    Comment lines are generally ignored and not mentioned in the remainder
    of this document.  However, it is legal for zero or more comment lines
    to be between any two lines, at the start of the file, and at the end
    of the file.

  Commands and parameters

    Data is specified by commands.  Commands start with the command name
    keyword, followed by parameters unique to that command.  All keywords,
    which include command names, are case-insensitive.

    Parameters are separated from the command name and from each other by
    one or more blanks.

    Individual parameters may be enclosed in quotes ("...") or
    apostrophies ('...').  This is required if the parameter is a text
    string that contains any blank, or starts or ends with a quote or
    apostrohie.  The value of the parameter will be the string enclosed
    by, but not including the outer quotes or apostrophies.  To indicate a
    single character of the type used to enclose the string, that
    character must be doubled in the body of the string.  For example, the
    following two text parameters have the same value:

      "Don't say ""never""."
      'Don''t say "never".'

    Integers

      Integer parameters have the format

        <radix>#<+-><digits>.

      RADIX is the number base (radix) in decimal, with the allowed range
      being 2-36.

      The "<+->" part can be either "+", "-", or be omitted.  This
      indicates       the sign of the value.  Positive is implied when the
      sign is omitted.

      DIGITS is the digits of the number in the specified radix.  The
      normal       digits 0-9 are used for digit values 0 to 9.  The
      letters A-Z or a-z are used for digit values 10 to 35.  Only digits
      with values less than the radix are allowed.  Leading zeros are
      allowed.  A minimum of one digit is required.

      The "<radix>#" part may be omitted, in which case the radix is
      implied       to be 10 (decimal).

      For example, the following integer parameters all have the decimal
      value of 249:

        249 +00249 10#249 10#+249 16#F9 2#11111001

    Angles

      Angles have the format

        <degrees>:<minutes>:<seconds>

      Each of DEGREES, MINUTES and SECONDS may have fraction digits.
      There are 60 minutes in one degree, and 60 seconds in one minute.
      The final angle expressed above is essentially the sum of all three
      fields, scaled appropriately.  Omitted MINUTES or SECONDS are
      interpreted as having a value of 0.  A colon may be omitted if all
      fields to its right are also omitted.  The DEGREES field is required.

      Angles are interpreted as they are with compass readings, with
      increasing angle progressively more clockwise when viewed from top
      (+Z axis).  This is also typical of angle readings from instruments
      like transits.  Angles may be negative to specify going left from
      the zero reference.

      The following examples all specify 2 1/4 degrees to the right of the
      zero reference angle:

        2.25
        2.25:
        2.25::
        2:15:0
        2:15
        2.2:3
        2.2:2.5:30

  Hierarchy

    The data in PNTCALC files is hierarchical.  The hierarchy is indicated
    by the indentation level (the number of blanks before the first
    non-blank character) of each line.  Top level data has 0 indentation
    (the first non-blank is in column 1).  Each successive level down in
    the hierarchy has an additional 2 characters of indentation.  For
    example, data one level below the top starts in column 3, two levels
    down in column 5, etc.

    All commands must be indented a multiple of 2 characters.  A command
    starting in column 4, for example, is illegal.

    There are no explicit commands to start and end subordinate blocks of
    data.  Data hierarchy is solely and ridgidly defined by the
    indentation level of each command.  A subordinate block is ended when
    a command at a higher level is encountered.


Commands

  POINT name

    Start a subordinate block for the indicated point.  If no point of
    name NAME exists, then it is created and initialized to empty.
    Otherwise, an existing point can be modified.  Point names are
    case-sensitive.

    AT x y [z]

      Specifies an absolute location for the point.  When only X and Y are
      supplied, then they are taken as the 2D components of the
      coordinate.  In that case, the existing Z coordinate is not altered.
      It is an error if the absolue coordinate was previously specified.

    ANGREF angle

      Specifies the 0 reference angle for all angle measurements from this
      point.  It is an error if this zero reference angle was previously
      set for this point.

      The reference angle is relative to the +Y axis, with positive values
      more clockwise when viewed from the +Z axis.

    ANGLE name angle [REF]

      Indicates an angle measurement from this point to the point NAME.
      If point NAME does not already exist, it is created and initialized
      to empty.  ANGLE is the angle measurement relative to the 0
      reference angle for the point named in the POINT command.

      The optional keyword REF indicates that this measurement also
      implicitly provides the zero reference angle.

    DISTXY name dist

      Indicates a measured distance between this point and the point of
      name NAME.  DIST is the distance projected onto the XY plane.  If
      point NAME does not already exist, it is created and initialized to
      empty.

      Since distances are reciprocal, the distance measurement is added to
      both the current point and the point NAME.
